How first-time founders fail (#8258)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/newsletter/first-time-founders.md

ServisHero [raised millions](https://techcrunch.com/2016/03/20/servishero-a-mobile-app-for-finding-local-services-in-southeast-asia-lands-2-7m/), generated early buzz, and blitzscaled their way to double-digit growth by expanding into new countries.

But Paul soon saw signs it wasn't working. Retention was poor. Growth was coming from marketing spend, rather than word-of-mouth. Worst of all, they were overhiring and competing with big tech on salaries.

ServisHero is still going, but it never reached the heights Paul or his co-founder hoped.

### What Paul learned

Paul and his co-founder thought they were following a well-established playbook, but it led to following mistakes:

1. **Premature scaling:** Lavish spending and expansion are worth nothing without product-market fit. Paul took a more community-centric, bottoms-up approach with Supabase because "it's better to have 100 true fans than 1 million drive-by users". Scaling too soon inevitably leads to...

> 2. **Cheating your metrics:** A classic. Don't be seduced by vanity metrics, like app downloads or signups, that make you feel good. Instead, "find a metric that *truly* indicates PMF". For Supabase, it's 'monthly active databases', which indicates both growth and real usage.

Reviewer: nice

3. **Hiring people you don't need:** Paul recommends a "need-based" approach to hiring. "Only hire someone when you have a problem that's big enough for a full-time hire." Not a theoretical problem or an opportunity, a burning problem you can only solve by hiring someone. "We now have around 80 people at Supabase, so I usually say that we have had 80 problems worth solving. This forces you to do less, stay focused, and maintain velocity."

> ## Taylor Wakefield (Co-founder of Mailgun and Teleport)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Taylor Wakefield, co-founder of Mailgun and Teleport
```

- **Profista:** 2008 to 2010 – dashboards and collaboration tools for general managers
- **Mailgun:** 2010 to 2012 – acquired by Rackspace, now has 150k+ customers
- **Teleport:** 2015 to present – used by dbt Labs, DoorDash and Nasdaq

THIS WILL BE A GRAPHIC

> Before [Taylor Wakefield](https://www.linkedin.com/in/taylorwakefield/ found success with Mailgun and Teleport, he co-founded Profista, a web app and consulting company that helped business leaders rack financial results and "operational drivers." 

Reviewer 2: rack or rank?

Author: track!

> Before [Taylor Wakefield](https://www.linkedin.com/in/taylorwakefield/ found success with Mailgun and Teleport, he co-founded Profista, a web app and consulting company that helped business leaders rack financial results and "operational drivers." 

Author: ```suggestion
Before [Taylor Wakefield](https://www.linkedin.com/in/taylorwakefield/ found success with Mailgun and Teleport, he co-founded Profista, a web app and consulting company that helped business leaders track financial results and "operational drivers." 
```

> "We essentially sold BI vaporware to large companies like EMC and Cisco to help manage their business. We would use Tableau graphs embedded in wireframes to demonstrate the idea to them."

> They generated $500k of orders this way and worked closely with management to build the workflows. Users would email spreadsheets to an endpoint, which would then automagically populate graphs in the app. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Taylor and his team generated $500k of orders this way and worked closely with management to build the workflows. Users would email spreadsheets to an endpoint, which would then automagically populate graphs in the app. 
```

Reviewer 2: Worked closely with the management of what? Client companies?

Early feedback was glowing and the product "blew the customers away," says Taylor. There was just one teeny, tiny problem. No one used it.

> "We didn't do a good job of working with the individuals who were going to be actually using the product on a day-to-day basis. It was pretty clear that it didn't make their lives easier, and they were only using it because their boss told them to. In the end, the actual users revolted, and the product didn't give the managers enough value for them to keep making their employees use it."

> They persevered for a while in the hope of turning things around, but it never worked out.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Taylor persevered for a while in the hope of turning things around, but it never worked out.
```

Author: Taylor wasn't on his own, hence "they".

### What Taylor learned

> Initial interest and orders convinced Taylor they were onto something, but they made a few classic first-time mistakes:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Initial interest and orders convinced Taylor he was onto something, but he and his team made a few classic first-time mistakes:
```

> 1. **Working on a problem they didn't know well:** While Taylor and his co-founders knew there was a problem to solve, it wasn't one they had personally encountered or tried to solve. In contrast, when Taylor and Ev Kontsevoy founded Mailgun, "Ev was solving his own problem that he understood deeply." They quickly found product-market fit and Mailgun was acquired after just two years.

Reviewer 2: Was Ev Kontsevoy a co-founder on Profista as well? Regardless, it's confusing to name him here in this way.

In contrast, when Taylor founded Mailgun with TKTK Ev Kontsevoy – the TKTK could be 'new collaborator' or similar. Just something to quantify who Kontsevoy is.

Author: He worked at Profista, I don't think he was a co-founder. There's a whole anecdote about how Taylor found Ev via a Craigslist ad that I took out for length reasons. I'll add a caveat here.

> 1. **Working on a problem they didn't know well:** While Taylor and his co-founders knew there was a problem to solve, it wasn't one they had personally encountered or tried to solve. In contrast, when Taylor and Ev Kontsevoy founded Mailgun, "Ev was solving his own problem that he understood deeply." They quickly found product-market fit and Mailgun was acquired after just two years.

Author: ```suggestion
1. **Working on a problem they didn't know well:** While Taylor and his co-founder knew there was a problem to solve, it wasn't one they had personally encountered or tried to solve. In contrast, when Taylor and Ev Kontsevoy, who has worked on Profista, founded Mailgun, "Ev was solving his own problem that he understood deeply." They quickly found product-market fit and Mailgun was acquired after just two years.
```

> 2. **Talking to the wrong people:** Managers have opinions, but they rarely understand the challenges of their employees. By working with managers as design partners, rather than the people who would use the app, Profista created a solution that didn't survive contact with reality.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. **Talking to the wrong people:** Managers have opinions, but rarely understand the challenges of their employees. By working with managers as design partners, rather than the people who would use the app, Profista created a solution that didn't survive contact with reality.
```

3. **Building a solution that isn't 10x better:** Points one and two inevitably lead here, as Taylor explains:

> > "We were very descriptive about the solution we were building, and in the end, it wasn't appreciably better than the email and spreadsheets based workflow they were using. People don't like change, and they won't adopt a new way of doing things unless it is massively better."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> "We were very descriptive about the solution we were building, and, in the end, it wasn't appreciably better than the email and spreadsheets based workflow they were using. People don't like change, and they won't adopt a new way of doing things unless it is massively better."
```

## More first-time founder mistakes

### Not solving a real problem

Exhibit A: [Humane AI Pin](https://www.theverge.com/24126502/humane-ai-pin-review)

### The wrong co-founder(s)

"[Companies are mostly about people](https://newsletter.posthog.com/p/what-we-learned-about-hiring-from)" and that starts with your co-founders. [Marty Kausus](https://www.linkedin.com/in/martykausas/), co-founder and CEO at [Pylon](https://usepylon.com), quit his second startup the moment he found "the right co-founders" to start a more successful venture.

Marty and his co-founders got together and "pivoted weekly" for around two months before landing on Pylon, a Zendesk and Intercom alternative for managing customer operations via Slack. A year and a half later, they already have strong product-market fit.

> > "My biggest takeaway on co-founders is to make sure they have similar hustle, spirit, and desired lifestyle. For Pylon, we wanted to live together and live and breathe the company. We joke that we don't have "work-life balance", we have "work-life integration" and that's ideal for us, while most people would find that miserable."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> "My biggest takeaway on co-founders is to make sure they have similar hustle, spirit, and desired lifestyle. For Pylon, we wanted to live together and live and breathe the company. We joke that we don't have 'work-life balance,' we have 'work-life integration' and that's ideal for us, while most people would find that miserable."
```

> ### Just shipping what users say they want

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Just shipping what people say they want
```

Author: I think 'users' is better here. It's more engineery language.

> Talking to customers is important, but it can go too far. This was a lesson [James Evans](https://www.linkedin.com/in/james-evans-7086b3126/), now co-founder at CEO at [CommandBar](https://www.commandbar.com), learned in his first startup:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Talking to customers is important, but it can go too far. This was a lesson [James Evans](https://www.linkedin.com/in/james-evans-7086b3126/), now co-founder and CEO at [CommandBar](https://www.commandbar.com), learned in his first startup:
```

> "Our only real advantage relative to competitors was speed and eagerness, so we shipped a ton of features. Users would ask for something on Intercom in the morning and receive it that evening. Just crazy customer service."

> It felt good, but "created a ton of product debt" and led them to ship "things that we didn't really want users to use," James says. In the end, he argues, it made the product "kind of Franksteiny-freakish." 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It felt good, but "created a ton of product debt" and led the team to ship "things that we didn't really want users to use," James says. In the end, he argues, it made the product "kind of Frankensteiney-freakish." 
```

> With CommandBar, James was determined to build a more opinionated product. They only build new features for customers when they can say, with confidence "this feature will help your users and not annoy them."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With CommandBar, James was determined to build a more opinionated product. The company only builds new features for customers when the team can say, with confidence, "this feature will help your users and not annoy them."
```

Author: "The company" is too formal. "The team" instead?

### Poor founder-market fit

> [Per Borgen](https://www.linkedin.com/in/per-harald-borgen/) and his co-founder spent three years trying to make their first startup, Propell (2012 to 2015), work. Despite reaching over a million downloads for their children's books for iPad idea, the venture almost broke his spirit: "I was convinced I'd never have the energy to do a startup again."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Per Borgen](https://www.linkedin.com/in/per-harald-borgen/) and his co-founder spent three years trying to make, Propell (2012 to 2015), their first startup, work. Despite reaching over a million downloads for iPad children's books idea, the venture almost broke his spirit: "I was convinced I'd never have the energy to do a startup again."
```

In his mind, they made two critical errors:

> 1. The market was too small.

Reviewer: a million downloads and he thought the market was too small? Needs elaborating

Author: Hmm, fair point. Might just drop this point as we don't explore it much.

Reviewer 2: surely the thing here is... it's (potentially) hard to monetize children???

2. They didn't have a "strong passion" for the problem they were trying to solve.

> They rectified both with [Scrimba](https://scrimba.com/), an online coding school they founded in 2016. It's profitable with a team of 15 and has over 10,000 customers. 

Reviewer: How did they rectify this?

Author: Answer is in the next line, but can make this more explicit.

> They rectified both with [Scrimba](https://scrimba.com/), an online coding school they founded in 2016. It's profitable with a team of 15 and has over 10,000 customers. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Per and his co-founder rectified both with [Scrimba](https://scrimba.com/), an online coding school they founded in 2016. It's profitable with a team of 15 and has over 10,000 customers. 
```

Reviewer 2: right? it was the same co-founder as before?

Author: yes

> Scrimba has a large target market who are willing to pay and Per, having learned to code via online bootcamps, has strong opinions on how to do it well.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Scrimba has a large target market who are willing to pay, and Per, having learned to code via online bootcamps, has strong opinions on how to do it well.
```

---
title: How first-time founders fail
date: 2024-04-10
author:
  - andy-vandervell
featuredImage: >-
  https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/posthog.com/contents/images/newsletter/beyond-10x-engineer/super-hog.png
featuredImageType: full
tags:
  - Being a founder
  - Product-market fit
crosspost:
  - Founders
  - Blog
---

1. First-time founders fail more often than everyone else.
2. Founders who previously failed are only _marginally_ more successful – like a percentage point or two.
3. Previously successful founders are _way_ more likely to succeed than either of the above.

Statistically, all three of these are true. Therefore, if you want to learn how first-time founders fail and avoid their mistakes, it's best to ask the ones who found success after their first startup(s) failed. 

So, I did. Here's what they said.

## Paul Copplestone (Co-founder of Supabase)

- **ServisHero:** 2015 to 2017 – left but company still active
- **Nimbus for Work:** 2018 to 2019
- **Supabase:** 2020 to present

THIS WILL BE A GRAPHIC

> Supabase is lean, product-led, and grows by word-of-mouth. It's the polar opposite of Paul's first startup, a marketplace for finding local services in South East Asia.

Author: ```suggestion
Supabase is lean, product-led, and grows by word-of-mouth. It's the polar opposite of ServisHero, Paul's first startup, a TaskRabbit-style marketplace for local services in South East Asia.
```

> Supabase is lean, product-led, and grows by word-of-mouth. It's the polar opposite of ServisHero, Paul's first startup, a TaskRabbit-style marketplace for local services in South East Asia.

Author: ```suggestion
[Supabase](https://supabase.com/) is lean, product-led, and grows by word-of-mouth. It's the polar opposite of ServisHero, [Paul Copplestone's](https://twitter.com/kiwicopple) first startup, a TaskRabbit-style marketplace for local services in South East Asia.
```

They [raised millions](https://techcrunch.com/2016/03/20/servishero-a-mobile-app-for-finding-local-services-in-southeast-asia-lands-2-7m/), generated early buzz, and blitzscaled their way to double-digit growth by expanding into new countries.

> But Paul soon saw signs it wasn't working. Retention was poor. Growth was coming from marketing spend, rather than word-of-mouth. Worst of all, they were over hiring and competing with big tech on salaries – what Paul refers to as "playing starting".

Author: ```suggestion
But Paul soon saw signs it wasn't working. Retention was poor. Growth was coming from marketing spend, rather than word-of-mouth. Worst of all, they were overhiring and competing with big tech on salaries.
```

> ServisHero is still going, albeit with a smaller, more focused offering, but it never reached the heights Paul or his co-founder hoped.

Author: ```suggestion
ServisHero is still going, but it never reached the heights Paul or his co-founder hoped.
```

### What Paul learned

Paul and his co-founder thought they were following a well-established playbook, but it led to following mistakes:

1. **Premature scaling:** Lavish spending and expansion are worth nothing without product-market fit. Paul took a more community-centric, bottoms-up approach with Supabase because "it's better to have 100 true fans than 1 million drive-by users". Scaling too soon inevitably leads to...

> 2. **Cheating your metrics:** A classic. Don't be seduced by vanity metrics, like app downloads or signups, that make you feel good. Instead, "find a metric that *truly* indicates PMF". For Supabase, it's Monthly Active Databases, which indicates both growth and real usage.

Author: ```suggestion
2. **Cheating your metrics:** A classic. Don't be seduced by vanity metrics, like app downloads or signups, that make you feel good. Instead, "find a metric that *truly* indicates PMF". For Supabase, it's 'monthly active databasesa, which indicates both growth and real usage.
```

> 3. **Hiring people you don't need:** Paul urges a "need-based" approach to hiring. "Only hire someone when you have a problem that's big enough for a full-time hire." Not a theoretical problem or an opportunity, a burning problem you can only solve by hiring someone. "We now have ~80 people at Supabase, so I usually say that we have had 80 problems worth solving. This forces you to do less, stay focused, and maintain velocity."

Author: ```suggestion
3. **Hiring people you don't need:** Paul recommends a "needs-based" approach to hiring. "Only hire someone when you have a problem that's big enough for a full-time hire." Not a theoretical problem or an opportunity, a burning problem you can only solve by hiring someone. "We now have ~80 people at Supabase, so I usually say that we have had 80 problems worth solving. This forces you to do less, stay focused, and maintain velocity."
```

## Taylor Wakefield (Co-founder of Mailgun and Teleport)

- **Profista:** 2008 to 2010 – dashboards and collaboration tools for general managers
- **Mailgun:** 2010 to 2012 – acquired by Rackspace, now has 150k+ customers
- **Teleport:** 2015 to present – used by dbt Labs, DoorDash and Nasdaq

THIS WILL BE A GRAPHIC

> Before Taylor found success with Mailgun and Teleport, he co-founded Profista, a web app and consulting company that helped business leaders rack financial results and "operational drivers." 

Author: ```suggestion
Before [Taylor Wakefield](https://www.linkedin.com/in/taylorwakefield/ found success with Mailgun and Teleport, he co-founded Profista, a web app and consulting company that helped business leaders rack financial results and "operational drivers." 
```

> "We essentially sold BI vaporware to large companies like EMC and Cisco to help manage their business. We would use Tableau graphs embedded in wireframes to demonstrate the idea to them."

They generated $500k of orders this way and worked closely with management to build the workflows. Users would email spreadsheets to an endpoint, which would then automagically populate graphs in the app. 

Early feedback was glowing. It "blew the customers away". There was just one teeny, tiny problem. No one used it:

> "We didn't do a good job of working with the individuals who were going to be actually using the product on a day-to-day basis. It was pretty clear that it didn't make their lives easier, and they were only using it because their boss told them to. In the end, the actual users revolted, and the product didn't give the managers enough value for them to keep making their employees use it."

They persevered for a while in the hope of turning things around, but it never worked out.

### What Taylor learned

Initial interest and orders convinced Taylor they were onto something, but they made a few classic first-time mistakes:

> 1. **Working on a problem they didn't know well:** While Taylor and his co-founders knew there was a problem to solve, it wasn't one they had personally encountered or tried to solve. With Mailgun, Taylor's co-founder Ev Kontsevoy "was solving his own problem that he understood deeply" and they quickly found product-market fit.

Author: ```suggestion
1. **Working on a problem they didn't know well:** While Taylor and his co-founders knew there was a problem to solve, it wasn't one they had personally encountered or tried to solve. In contrast, when Taylor and Ev Kontsevoy founded Mailgun, "Ev was solving his own problem that he understood deeply." They quickly found product-market fit and Mailgun was acquired after just two years.
```

> 2. **Talking to the wrong people:** Managers have opinions, but they rarely understand the challenges of their employees. By working with managers as design partners, rather than the people who would use the app, they created a solution that didn't survive contact with reality.

Author: ```suggestion
2. **Talking to the wrong people:** Managers have opinions, but they rarely understand the challenges of their employees. By working with managers as design partners, rather than the people who would use the app, Profista created a solution that didn't survive contact with reality.
```

3. **Building a solution that isn't 10x better or cheaper:** Points 1 and 2 inevitably lead here, as Taylor explains:

> "We were very descriptive about the solution we were building and in the end it wasn't appreciably better than the email and spreadsheets based workflow they were using. People don't like change, and they won't adopt a new way of doing things unless it is massively better."

## More first-time founder mistakes

### Not solving a real problem

Exhibit A: [Humane AI Pin](https://www.theverge.com/24126502/humane-ai-pin-review)

### The wrong co-founders

> "[Companies are mostly about people](https://newsletter.posthog.com/p/what-we-learned-about-hiring-from)" and that starts with your co-founders. Marty Kausus quit his second startup the moment he found "the right co-founders" to start a more successful venture.

Author: ```suggestion
"[Companies are mostly about people](https://newsletter.posthog.com/p/what-we-learned-about-hiring-from)" and that starts with your co-founders. Marty Kausus, co-founder and CEO at [Pylon](https://usepylon.com), quit his second startup the moment he found "the right co-founders" to start a more successful venture.
```

> "[Companies are mostly about people](https://newsletter.posthog.com/p/what-we-learned-about-hiring-from)" and that starts with your co-founders. Marty Kausus, co-founder and CEO at [Pylon](https://usepylon.com), quit his second startup the moment he found "the right co-founders" to start a more successful venture.

Author: ```suggestion
"[Companies are mostly about people](https://newsletter.posthog.com/p/what-we-learned-about-hiring-from)" and that starts with your co-founders. [Marty Kausus](https://www.linkedin.com/in/martykausas/), co-founder and CEO at [Pylon](https://usepylon.com), quit his second startup the moment he found "the right co-founders" to start a more successful venture.
```

They got together and "pivoted weekly for ~2 months" before landing on Pylon, a Zendesk/Intercom alternative for managing customer operations via Slack. None of his previous co-founders could commit to this level.

> "My biggest takeaway on co-founders is to make sure they have similar hustle, spirit, and desired lifestyle. For Pylon, we wanted to live together and live and breathe the company. We joke that we don't have "work-life balance", we have "work-life integration" and that's ideal for us, while most people would find that miserable."

### Not using analytics

> YC's Michael Seibel says that, even now, "we see this time and time again." See also: [What engineers get wrong about analytics](https://newsletter.posthog.com/p/what-engineers-get-wrong-about-analytics).

Author: ```suggestion
Y Combinator's Michael Seibel says that, even now, "we see this time and time again." See also: [What engineers get wrong about analytics](https://newsletter.posthog.com/p/what-engineers-get-wrong-about-analytics).
```

> ### Not using analytics
> 
> YC's Michael Seibel says that, even now, "we see this time and time again." See also: [What engineers get wrong about analytics](https://newsletter.posthog.com/p/what-engineers-get-wrong-about-analytics).

Author: ```suggestion
```

### Just shipping what users say they want

> Talking to customers is important, but it can go too far. This was a lesson James Evans (CommandBar LINK) learned in his first startup:

Author: ```suggestion
Talking to customers is important, but it can go too far. This was a lesson James Evans, now co-founder at CEO at CommandBar, learned in his first startup:
```

> Talking to customers is important, but it can go too far. This was a lesson James Evans, now co-founder at CEO at [CommandBar](https://www.commandbar.com), learned in his first startup:

Author: ```suggestion
Talking to customers is important, but it can go too far. This was a lesson [James Evans](https://www.linkedin.com/in/james-evans-7086b3126/), now co-founder at CEO at [CommandBar](https://www.commandbar.com), learned in his first startup:
```

> "Our only real advantage relative to competitors was speed and eagerness, so we shipped a TON of features. Users would ask for something on Intercom in the morning and receive it that evening. Just crazy customer service."

It felt good, but it "created a ton of product debt" and led them to ship "things that we didn't really want users to use... it made our product kind of Franksteiny-freakish." 

With CommandBar, he was determined to build a more opinionated product. They only build new features for customers when they can say, with confidence "this feature will help your users and not annoy them."

### Poor founder-market fit

Per Borgen and his co-founder spent three years trying to make their first startup work. Despite reaching over a million downloads for their children's books for iPad idea, the venture almost broke his spirit: "I was convinced I'd never have the energy to do a startup again."

In his mind, they made two critical errors:

> 1. The market was too small

Author: ```suggestion
1. The market was too small.
```

> Per Borgen and his co-founder spent three years trying to make their first startup work. Despite reaching over a million downloads for their children's books for iPad idea, the venture almost broke his spirit: "I was convinced I'd never have the energy to do a startup again."

Author: ```suggestion
Per Borgen and his co-founder spent three years trying to make their first startup, Propell (2012 to 2015), work. Despite reaching over a million downloads for their children's books for iPad idea, the venture almost broke his spirit: "I was convinced I'd never have the energy to do a startup again."
```

2. They didn't have a "strong passion" for the problem they were trying to solve.

They rectified both with Scrimba, an online coding school that's profitable with a team of 15, and has over 10k customers. 

They have a large target market who are willing to pay and Per, having learned to code via an online bootcamps, has strong opinions how to do it well.

He has one final piece of advice for first-time founders:

> "The worst period is before you pull the plug, not after. I felt much better after I stopped trying to save the startup, and started doing something else. The lump in my stomach completely went away."

> 
> All these founders failed on their first attempts. Odds are you will, too.

Author: ```suggestion
```

---
title: How first-time founders fail
date: 2024-04-10
author:
  - andy-vandervell
featuredImage: >-
  https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/posthog.com/contents/images/newsletter/beyond-10x-engineer/super-hog.png
featuredImageType: full
tags:
  - Being a founder
  - Product-market fit
crosspost:
  - Founders
  - Blog
---

> Read the footnote if "trust me bro" isn't enough for you, but statistically:
> 
> 1. First-time founders fail more often than everyone else.
> 2. Founders who previously failed are only _marginally_ more successful – like a percentage point or two.
> 3. Previously successful founders are _way_ more likely to succeed than either of the above.
> 
> Therefore, if you want to learn how first-time founders fail and avoid their mistakes, it's best to ask the ones who found success after their first startup(s) failed. 

Reviewer 3: I think you should just start with a list.
```suggestion
1. First-time founders fail more often than everyone else.
2. Founders who previously failed are only _marginally_ more successful – like a percentage point or two.
3. Previously successful founders are _way_ more likely to succeed than either of the above.

Statistically, all three of these are true. Therefore, if you want to learn how first-time founders fail and avoid their mistakes, it's best to ask the ones who found success after their first startup(s) failed. 
```

So, I did. Here's what they said.

> ## Paul Copplestone (Co-founder of Supabase)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Paul Copplestone, co-founder of Supabase
```

Reviewer 2: this formatting feels neater than brackets?

- **ServisHero:** 2015 to 2017 – left but company still active
- **Nimbus for Work:** 2018 to 2019
- **Supabase:** 2020 to present

THIS WILL BE A GRAPHIC

> Supabase is lean, product-led, and grows by word-of-mouth. It's the polar opposite of Paul's first startup, a marketplace for finding local services in South East Asia.

Reviewer 2: what kinda services?

> Supabase is lean, product-led, and grows by word-of-mouth. It's the polar opposite of Paul's first startup, a marketplace for finding local services in South East Asia.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Supabase is lean, product-led, and grows by word-of-mouth. It's the polar opposite of ServisHero, Paul's first startup, which was a marketplace for finding local services in South East Asia.
```

> They [raised millions](https://techcrunch.com/2016/03/20/servishero-a-mobile-app-for-finding-local-services-in-southeast-asia-lands-2-7m/), generated early buzz, and blitzscaled their way to double-digit growth by expanding into new countries.

Reviewer 2: not clear who 'they' is? maybe like...

ServisHero launched in 2015, and raised millions etc etc

> They [raised millions](https://techcrunch.com/2016/03/20/servishero-a-mobile-app-for-finding-local-services-in-southeast-asia-lands-2-7m/), generated early buzz, and blitzscaled their way to double-digit growth by expanding into new countries.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
ServisHero [raised millions](https://techcrunch.com/2016/03/20/servishero-a-mobile-app-for-finding-local-services-in-southeast-asia-lands-2-7m/), generated early buzz, and blitzscaled their way to double-digit growth by expanding into new countries.
```

> But Paul soon saw signs it wasn't working. Retention was poor. Growth was coming from marketing spend, rather than word-of-mouth. Worst of all, they were over hiring and competing with big tech on salaries – what Paul refers to as "playing starting".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Paul soon saw signs it wasn't working. Retention was poor. Growth was coming from marketing spend, rather than word-of-mouth. Worst of all, his company was over-hiring and competing with big tech on salaries – what Paul refers to as "playing starting."
```

> But Paul soon saw signs it wasn't working. Retention was poor. Growth was coming from marketing spend, rather than word-of-mouth. Worst of all, they were over hiring and competing with big tech on salaries – what Paul refers to as "playing starting".

Reviewer 3: Is "playing starting" right?
```suggestion
But Paul soon saw signs it wasn't working. Retention was poor. Growth was coming from marketing spend, rather than word-of-mouth. Worst of all, they were overhiring and competing with big tech on salaries – what Paul refers to as "playing starting".
```

Author: I might drop that quote as it confused me, too.

> ServisHero is still going, albeit with a smaller, more focused offering, but it never reached the heights Paul or his co-founder hoped.

Reviewer 2: is there a better word than 'offering'?

> ServisHero is still going, albeit with a smaller, more focused offering, but it never reached the heights Paul or his co-founder hoped.

Reviewer 3: Too many commas in this sentence, makes it tough to read
```suggestion
ServisHero is still going, albeit with a smaller offering, but it never reached the heights Paul or his co-founder hoped.
```

### What Paul learned

Paul and his co-founder thought they were following a well-established playbook, but it led to following mistakes:

> 1. **Premature scaling:** Lavish spending and expansion are worth nothing without product-market fit. Paul took a more community-centric, bottoms-up approach with Supabase because "it's better to have 100 true fans than 1 million drive-by users". Scaling too soon inevitably leads to...

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. **Premature scaling:** Lavish spending and expansion are worth nothing without product-market fit. Paul took a more community-centric, bottom-up approach with Supabase. "It's better to have 100 true fans than 1 million drive-by users," he says. Scaling too soon inevitably leads to...
```

> 2. **Cheating your metrics:** A classic. Don't be seduced by vanity metrics, like app downloads or signups, that make you feel good. Instead, "find a metric that *truly* indicates PMF". For Supabase, it's Monthly Active Databases, which indicates both growth and real usage.

Reviewer 2: do we want Monthly Active Databases in title case?

> 3. **Hiring people you don't need:** Paul urges a "need-based" approach to hiring. "Only hire someone when you have a problem that's big enough for a full-time hire." Not a theoretical problem or an opportunity, a burning problem you can only solve by hiring someone. "We now have ~80 people at Supabase, so I usually say that we have had 80 problems worth solving. This forces you to do less, stay focused, and maintain velocity."

Reviewer 2: is there a better word than urges?

> 3. **Hiring people you don't need:** Paul urges a "need-based" approach to hiring. "Only hire someone when you have a problem that's big enough for a full-time hire." Not a theoretical problem or an opportunity, a burning problem you can only solve by hiring someone. "We now have ~80 people at Supabase, so I usually say that we have had 80 problems worth solving. This forces you to do less, stay focused, and maintain velocity."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. **Hiring people you don't need:** Paul urges a "need-based" approach to hiring. "Only hire someone when you have a problem that's big enough for a full-time hire." Not a theoretical problem or an opportunity, a burning problem you can only solve by hiring someone. "We now have around 80 people at Supabase, so I usually say that we have had 80 problems worth solving. This forces you to do less, stay focused, and maintain velocity."
```

## Taylor Wakefield (Co-founder of Mailgun and Teleport)

- **Profista:** 2008 to 2010 – dashboards and collaboration tools for general managers
- **Mailgun:** 2010 to 2012 – acquired by Rackspace, now has 150k+ customers
- **Teleport:** 2015 to present – used by dbt Labs, DoorDash and Nasdaq

THIS WILL BE A GRAPHIC

> Before Taylor found success with Mailgun and Teleport, he co-founded a web app and consulting company that to general managers track financial results and "operational drivers". 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before Taylor found success with Mailgun and Teleport, he co-founded Profista, a web app and consulting company that helped general managers track financial results and "operational drivers." 
```

Reviewer 2: what do we mean by 'general managers'?

> Before Taylor found success with Mailgun and Teleport, he co-founded a web app and consulting company that to general managers track financial results and "operational drivers". 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Before Taylor found success with Mailgun and Teleport, he co-founded a web app and consulting company that helped general managers track financial results and "operational drivers". 
```

> "We essentially sold BI vaporware to large companies like EMC and Cisco to help manage their business. We would use Tableau graphs embedded in wireframes to demonstrate the idea to them."

They generated $500k of orders this way and worked closely with management to build the workflows. Users would email spreadsheets to an endpoint, which would then automagically populate graphs in the app. 

> Early feedback was glowing. It "blew the customers away". There was just one teeny, tiny problem. No one used it:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Early feedback was glowing and the product "blew the customers away," says Taylor. There was just one teeny, tiny problem. No one used it.
```

> "We didn't do a good job of working with the individuals who were going to be actually using the product on a day-to-day basis. It was pretty clear that it didn't make their lives easier, and they were only using it because their boss told them to. In the end, the actual users revolted, and the product didn't give the managers enough value for them to keep making their employees use it."

They persevered for a while in the hope of turning things around, but it never worked out.

### What Taylor learned

> Initial interest and orders convinced Taylor they were onto something, but they made a few classic first-time mistakes:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Initial interest and orders convinced Taylor he was onto something, but Profista made a few classic first-time mistakes:
```

> 1. **Working on a problem they didn't know well:** While Taylor and his co-founders knew there was a problem to solve, it wasn't one they had personally encountered or tried to solve. With Mailgun, Taylor's co-founder Ev Kontsevoy "was solving his own problem that he understood deeply" and they quickly found product-market fit.

Reviewer 2: the jump to mailgun here is confusing. when did we start talking about mailgun? could set it up better like...

In 2010, Taylor co-founded Mailgun with Ev Kontsevoy. He explains that, this time, they were solving a problem they understood really well and quickly found product-market fit. Within two years, the company was acquired etc etc etc

or similar

> 2. **Talking to the wrong people:** Managers have opinions, but they rarely understand the challenges of their employees. By working with managers as design partners, rather than the people who would use the app, they created a solution that didn't survive contact with reality.

Reviewer 2: think we need to make clear what company we're talking about here? this is about Profista again yup?

> 3. **Building a solution that isn't 10x better or cheaper:** Points 1 and 2 inevitably lead here, as Taylor explains:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. **Building a solution that isn't 10x better or cheaper:** Points one and two inevitably lead here, as Taylor explains:
```

> 3. **Building a solution that isn't 10x better or cheaper:** Points 1 and 2 inevitably lead here, as Taylor explains:

Reviewer 3: Unless you have some other point about pricing, it doesn't seem like this covers pricing.
```suggestion
3. **Building a solution that isn't 10x better:** Points 1 and 2 inevitably lead here, as Taylor explains:
```

> > "We were very descriptive about the solution we were building and in the end it wasn't appreciably better than the email and spreadsheets based workflow they were using. People don't like change, and they won't adopt a new way of doing things unless it is massively better."

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> "We were very descriptive about the solution we were building, and in the end, it wasn't appreciably better than the email and spreadsheets based workflow they were using. People don't like change, and they won't adopt a new way of doing things unless it is massively better."
```

## More first-time founder mistakes

### Not solving a real problem

> Exhibit A: [Humane AI Pin](https://www.theverge.com/24126502/humane-ai-pin-review)

Reviewer 2: lol

> Exhibit A: [Humane AI Pin](https://www.theverge.com/24126502/humane-ai-pin-review)

Reviewer 3: I feel like we already covered this point in the last section and Humane bashing doesn't really add anything 🤷

Author: I felt like the previous example is less direct – i.e. they did solve a problem, but not well enough. Humane just doesn't solve an actual problem at all.

> ### The wrong co-founders

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### The wrong co-founder(s)
```

> "[Companies are mostly about people](https://newsletter.posthog.com/p/what-we-learned-about-hiring-from)" and that starts with your co-founders. Marty Kausus quit his second startup the moment he found "the right co-founders" to start a more successful venture.

Reviewer 2: we need to say who Marty Kausus is

> They got together and "pivoted weekly for ~2 months" before landing on Pylon, a Zendesk/Intercom alternative for managing customer operations via Slack. None of his previous co-founders could commit to this level.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
They got together and "pivoted weekly" for around two months before landing on Pylon, a Zendesk or Intercom alternative for managing customer operations via Slack. None of his previous co-founders could commit to this level.
```

Reviewer 2: we need to situate this: who is they, when did they get together, etc. also, sorry, might be me being dumb but... commit to this level of what?

> "My biggest takeaway on co-founders is to make sure they have similar hustle, spirit, and desired lifestyle. For Pylon, we wanted to live together and live and breathe the company. We joke that we don't have "work-life balance", we have "work-life integration" and that's ideal for us, while most people would find that miserable."

> ### Not using analytics

Reviewer 3: Compared to the other points in this section, this one is a lot less interesting, should be moved down/removed tbh

> YC's Michael Seibel says that, even now, "we see this time and time again." See also: [What engineers get wrong about analytics](https://newsletter.posthog.com/p/what-engineers-get-wrong-about-analytics).

Reviewer 2: style point... i'd normally say avoid abbreviation's of company names as it can trip people up. unless, stylistically, we want to always refer to y combinator as yc?

### Just shipping what users say they want

> Talking to customers is important, but it can go too far. This was a lesson James Evans (CommandBar LINK) learned in his first startup:

Reviewer 2: something like

James Evans, currently CEO and co-founder of CommandBar, learned at company TKTK, his first startup.

> Talking to customers is important, but it can go too far. This was a lesson James Evans (CommandBar LINK) learned in his first startup:

Reviewer 3: Isn't CommandBar kind of a competitor?

Author: Only in a very limited sense, imo.

> > "Our only real advantage relative to competitors was speed and eagerness, so we shipped a TON of features. Users would ask for something on Intercom in the morning and receive it that evening. Just crazy customer service."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> "Our only real advantage relative to competitors was speed and eagerness, so we shipped a ton of features. Users would ask for something on Intercom in the morning and receive it that evening. Just crazy customer service."
```

> It felt good, but it "created a ton of product debt" and led them to ship "things that we didn't really want users to use... it made our product kind of Franksteiny-freakish." 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It felt good, but "created a ton of product debt" and led them to ship "things that we didn't really want users to use," James says. In the end, he argues, it made the product "kind of Franksteiny-freakish." 
```

Reviewer 2: style point... we wanna go with first names or last names? latter is clearer, former is more informal/chatty. be good to have a policy on this!

Author: First names, for sure

> With CommandBar, he was determined to build a more opinionated product. They only build new features for customers when they can say, with confidence "this feature will help your users and not annoy them."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With CommandBar, James was determined to build a more opinionated product. They only build new features for customers when they can say, with confidence "this feature will help your users and not annoy them."
```

### Poor founder-market fit

> Per Borgen and his co-founder spent three years trying to make their first startup work. Despite reaching over a million downloads for their children's books for iPad idea, the venture almost broke his spirit: "I was convinced I'd never have the energy to do a startup again."

Reviewer 2: be good to name company/whatever behind the iPad thing, and give it a date/when it launched so there's a sense of time between this failure and the subsequent success

In his mind, they made two critical errors:

1. The market was too small

> 2. They didn't have a "strong passion" for the problem they were trying to solve.

Reviewer 2: one bullet has a period one doesn't. do we have a style on periods on bullets?

Author: We do not

Reviewer 2: simple one:

if the bullet is a full sentence, period.
if the bullet is not a full sentence, no period.

is pretty/universally standard.

> They rectified both with Scrimba, an online coding school that's profitable with a team of 15, and has over 10k customers. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
They rectified both with Scrimba, an online coding school that's profitable with a team of 15, and has over 10,000 customers. 
```

Reviewer 2: again, good to say when scrimba was founded to give this a timeline

> They have a large target market who are willing to pay and Per, having learned to code via an online bootcamps, has strong opinions how to do it well.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Scrimba has a large target market who are willing to pay and Per, having learned to code via online bootcamps, has strong opinions on how to do it well.
```

> He has one final piece of advice for first-time founders:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
He's got one final piece of advice for first-time founders:
```

> "The worst period is before you pull the plug, not after. I felt much better after I stopped trying to save the startup, and started doing something else. The lump in my stomach completely went away."

> All these founders failed on their first attempts. Odds are you will, too.

Reviewer 3: Feels a bit out of place

---
title: How first-time founders fail
date: 2024-04-10
author:
  - andy-vandervell
featuredImage: >-
  https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/posthog.com/contents/images/newsletter/beyond-10x-engineer/super-hog.png
featuredImageType: full
tags:
  - Being a founder
  - Product-market fit
crosspost:
  - Founders
  - Blog
---

> Read the footnote if "trust me bro" isn't enough for you, but statistically:

Author: Footnote doesn't exist yet. Just imagine it.

Reviewer 2: Still kinda feel this falls flat as an opening line. Telling people to read a footnote in the first sentence is weird? You could turn the bullets into a par, so like:

Which kind of founder is most likely to fail when launching a new startup? Is it a first-time founder? A founder who's previously failed? Or a previously successful founder? Yup, you guessed right, it's the first time founder. This isn't just a vibe, it's backed up by statistics (head to the footnote if you want the numbers.)

But if you want to learn how first-time founders fail, and avoid their mistakes, then you better talk to founder who failed and then found success. We've done it so you don't have to. Here's what they told us.

something like this?

Author: Will take another stabs this today
